---
sidebar_position: 1
---
# Legal
The Gaia Governance Procedures aim to make certain disclaimers, disclosures, and other risk-oriented information which relate to governance and the governance processes involved in the Gaia Network (the Gaia Protocol and Gaia Governance system are collectively referred to herein as the “**Gaia Network**”). The Gaia Governance Procedures are intended to disclaim any legal obligations of Gaia Network participants to one another and to any third parties and to serve as a guide to a range of potential risks, uncertainties, and adverse/negative facts that may be associated with the Gaia Network or its use or results of operation. It is highly recommended that you carefully study the Gaia Governance Procedures including, but not limited to the related smart contracts, code and onchain mechanisms before directly or indirectly using the Gaia Network, the GAIA token, engaging in any Gaia Governance or otherwise engaging in any other activities directly or indirectly related to the Gaia ecosystem.

The Gaia Governance Procedures are intended to function as a high-level and readily-understandable description of the governance and the governance processes involved in the Gaia Network. However, they are incomplete because they relate and refer to smart contracts, code and onchain mechanisms that operate deterministically in accordance with their specifications. As such, the Gaia Governance Procedures must only be read in conjunction with a thorough understanding of those smart contracts, code and onchain mechanisms. If you are unable to understand or read smart contracts, code and onchain mechanisms you should take advice from a person (legal and natural persons are collectively referred to as “**Persons**”) that can. As such, the Gaia Governance Procedures are not in themselves and are not intended to be a comprehensive account of all relevant risks, uncertainties, adverse/negative facts and disclaimers relating to the governance and the governance processes involved in the Gaia Network.

## The Governance Parties
Decisions made by any Person referred to in the Gaia Governance Procedures (collectively, “**Governance Parties**”) are made at the sole discretion of the applicable Governance Party. Unless explicitly agreed to in writing by a Governance Party, no Governance Party shall have express or implied duties to any Person, or be liable under any circumstance, for decisions made in good faith in connection with their roles contemplated by or made pursuant to the Gaia Governance Procedures.

## The Gaia Governance Procedures
The Gaia Governance Procedures are intended to be for descriptive, disclosure and informational purposes only and nothing contained herein shall be construed as creating any agency, partnership, joint venture or other form of joint enterprise, employment, or fiduciary relationship between or among any Governance Party and any other Person. No Person, by virtue of the Gaia Governance Procedures, will have any right, power, or authority to act or create an obligation, express or implied, on behalf of another party. Nothing herein shall be deemed or constructed as creating a business opportunity relationship.

No Governance Party is a party to the Gaia Governance Procedures and no Governance Party makes any guarantee of potential earnings that will, or may, be received in connection with activities relating to the Gaia Network, and has not provided anyone with any statements relating thereto.

## Limitations on Liability
The Gaia Network and all other relevant technologies related to the Gaia Network are being provided on an as-is basis, without representation, warranty, insurance or indemnity, and any and all participation is solely at your own risk.

No Governance Party or any other Person has made or makes any other express or implied representation or warranty, either written or oral, including any representation or warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of any information provided in the Gaia Governance Procedures or as to the future success of the Gaia Network or any representation or warranty arising from statute or otherwise in law.

IN NO EVENT SHALL ANY GOVERNANCE PARTY OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES, OWNERS, DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS OR REPRESENTATIVES BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR CLAIMS OR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE OR ENHANCED DAMAGES, LOST PROFITS OR REVENUES, OR DIMINUTION IN VALUE ARISING OUT OF, RELATING TO, OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY ACTION TAKEN OR NOT TAKEN IN RELATION TO THESE GAIA GOVERNANCE PROCEDURES AND THE ACTIVITIES CONTEMPLATED THEREBY, REGARDLESS OF (A) WHETHER SUCH DAMAGES WERE FORESEEABLE, (B) WHETHER OR NOT A PERSON WAS ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES AND (C) THE LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY (CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE) UPON WHICH THE CLAIM IS BASED.

No action or inaction on the part of any Governance Party described in these Gaia Governance Procedures will entitle any other Person to equitable relief, including specific performance, injunctive relief, rescission, or any other form of equitable remedy.

## Irreversibility of Transactions and Lack of Remedies and Insurance for Damages
Blockchain transactions are, under normal conditions, irreversible. Any tokens, including any GAIA tokens, that you deposit into GAIA-related smart contracts are subject to potential risk of permanent disablement, impairment, loss or forfeiture in the event of any exploits, bugs or malfunctions of the relevant smart contracts or the underlying blockchain itself (including both GAIA and Ethereum), and no remedy will be available from any Person due to any normal or direct damages, indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages or losses of any character, including damages for loss of goodwill, lost profits, lost sales or business you may suffer in connection with your participation in the Gaia Network and all other relevant technologies related to the Gaia Network or use of any related technologies.

## Experimental Technology; Technical Risks; Independent Due Diligence Required
The technologies and assets involved in the Gaia Network are highly experimental and risky, have uncertain and potentially volatile value (if any), and should be directly evaluated by experts in blockchain technologies before use. Use them solely at your own risk. You must not rely on the Gaia Governance Procedures, any articles, blogs, social media posts, summaries or published code audits as an accurate description or evaluation of the Gaia Network or any other blockchain, or for purposes of making any financial, governance, voting or other decision. Instead, you must only participate in the Gaia Network after thoroughly reviewing and understanding the related smart contracts, code and onchain mechanisms that operate deterministically in accordance with their specifications, in accordance with your own independent due diligence process (which should be supplemented by professional advice, where you are unable to or do not have the required skills to form your own independent opinion).

## Multisignature Controls Over the Gaia Network
Certain elements of the Gaia Network can be modified or controlled by certain cryptographic multisignature smart contracts stored on their respective blockchains (each, a “**Multisig**”). Each Multisig, in turn, is administered by Persons who each hold one or more private keys, a subset of which may (by signing their respective private keys to the same transaction and broadcasting that transaction to blockchain validators or sequencers) instruct validators or sequencers to perform Multisig operations. It is possible for the Multisig key holders, through the Multisig, to change certain parameters of the GAIA smart contracts or other GAIA-related technologies. This discretion of the Multisig key holders constitutes a material risk, and could enable your tokens, including but not limited to any GAIA tokens, to be adversely affected, impacted, lost, damaged, destroyed, diluted, modified, used in unexpected ways, subjected to unexpected risks, or misappropriated.

## GAIA Multisig Key Holders
The Multisig keyholders of the Gaia Security Council are expected to be independent service providers under the supervision and purview of the Gaia Foundation. These keyholders are expected to execute a Multisignature Participation Agreement and a service level agreement with the Gaia Foundation providing, among other things, that they will use their signature authority in their independent judgment to foster Gaia as a public good which is available for Gaia users and others in the Gaia community. The Multisignature Participation Agreement and a service level agreement are expected to contain legal constraints on the authority of the Multisig keyholders to use their signature authority to change the Gaia Network to enhance the overall security of those systems.

However, the existence of a Multisignature Participation Agreement and / or the relevant bylaws of the relevant entity do not guarantee that the Multisig key holders will comply with their terms, and, due to the nature of private/public- key cryptography, GAIA and other relevant technologies, the ability and willingness of the Gaia Foundation to timely and effectively enforce the terms of the Multisignature Participation Agreement and or the relevant bylaws against the Multisig key holders, and other factors, the Multisig key holders’ performance of their obligations under the Multisig Participation Agreement and or the bylaws cannot be guaranteed and is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. By using the Gaia Network, you agree to assume all risks arising from the existence and operation of each Multisig.

## Other GAIA-Related Multisigs
Systems not constituting a part of the Gaia Network, but used in the functioning of the Gaia Network within the Gaia ecosystem, may also be subject to control by Multisigs, or even by single administrative accounts. Such systems may include bridges, vaults, bots, oracles and other blockchain systems on which the foregoing are deployed, and other relevant technologies. Any mutability of such systems through their respective Multisigs or other control accounts may adversely affect the functioning of the Gaia Network including but not limited to the Gaia ecosystem and/or the Gaia Governance system. Please be aware of all such dependencies and review their applicable code and documentation to understand these risks.

## Risks of No Promised Efforts or Resources
The Gaia Network is intended to be community-governed. Certain relevant parties may elect to undertake limited ministerial activities directly or indirectly related to Gaia, such as maintaining availability of a Gaia related web interface, but no promise, guarantee or assurance of such ministerial efforts or any other efforts is being made, and any such efforts which do occur may be abandoned at any time, with or without advanced notice. There is no 'Gaia enterprise’, or ‘GAIA business’. The Gaia Network is comprised of multiple different inter-related technologies, systems and smart contracts and from time to time will be used, interacted with or otherwise referred to by a diverse range of participants each of whom will have different interests, whether economic, technical, social or otherwise. Many such interests will be in direct conflict and as such, you acknowledge that there cannot be a direct collective benefit or adverse effect of participants interacting with the Gaia Network.

No Person has promised you, or assumed any obligation to you to exert or provide financial, technical, social or other support for, any efforts, capital or resources in connection with the Gaia Network. No Person has promised you, or assumed any obligation to you to exert or provide financial, technical, social or other support for, any research, development, promotion, marketing, maintenance, monitoring, or improvements relating to the Gaia Network. Any past, present or future efforts on the part of any Person are being conducted on a voluntary and not committed basis, and are not intended as, and must not be construed or relied upon as, a promise of continuing efforts. Any past, present or future efforts on the part of any Person may not have the intended outcome, and the willingness or ability of any particular Person to influence or otherwise change the Gaia Network.

## Risks of Decentralized Governance
Updates, changes or amendments to the Gaia Network may require approval of the Gaia Delegates, which consists of a dispersed group of GAIA token holders that may be unable or unwilling to sufficiently coordinate to produce action or inaction.

## Risks of Builder GAIA Token Allocations
Certain Persons [placeholder] have received x% of the GAIA token supply, subject to lockup. Further details can be found at: [post link].

No such Person has made any representation, promise, guarantee or assurance to you that any GAIA token granted to any such Person, or any funding or resources of any such Person, will be held, used or spent for the benefit of the Gaia Network and any such Person may interact with their GAIA token at their sole discretion, subject to any contractual restrictions on such.

Any sale or other transfer or distribution of such GAIA tokens could occur without warning. Any such transaction would increase the circulating supply of GAIA tokens. Depending on the number of GAIA tokens sold, transferred, or distributed, the terms of sale, transfer or distribution and the prevailing market conditions, such a sale, transfer or other distribution could have a material adverse effect on the price or value of, or demand for, GAIA tokens.

While locked, the GAIA tokens of builders will be votable. Any use of such GAIA to vote in relation to the Gaia Network could affect governance outcomes. No assurance can be made that any such GAIA token recipients will participate in Gaia Governance. Any voting of such GAIA tokens could fail to be conducted on a reasonable, good faith, diligent, or disinterested basis and may not be done in the best interests of other GAIA token holders or the Gaia Network including but not limited to the Gaia ecosystem and/or the Gaia Governance system or the Gaia community. Any GAIA token holder could have financial, social or other interests or incentives which could outweigh their respective interests and incentives (if any) relating to the Gaia Network. No GAIA token holder owes you fiduciary duties, duties of care or other legal duties which would preclude them from following such extrinsic interests to the detriment of your interests or the interests of the Gaia Network.

GAIA token holders who choose to participate in governance will be required to use their own personal independent discretion and decision-making in doing so, including the choice as to any delegation of their voting power to a delegate.

As a result of the foregoing factors and the lack of any Person or group of Persons able to control and manage the Gaia Network, any discretionary decision-making related to such systems depends on the effectiveness of spontaneous group decision-making among participating GAIA token holders. There may be disputes, differences of opinion, disagreements, conflicting incentives and a lack of coordination among or between any or all governance participants, and such circumstances may adversely affect governance results.

## Gaia Content; Informational Purposes Only
All publications, articles, blogs, tweets, messages, posts, other online communications, videos, documents, statements, analyses and information relating to the Gaia Network (collectively, “**Gaia Content**”) are intended solely for general educational purposes regarding the code, smart contracts, software systems and other social or governance systems relating to the Gaia Network and not as financial, legal, accounting, investment, tax or other advice or services, including any recommendation as to any action or inaction. Accessing or using the Gaia Content does not create any fiduciary, service or other contractual or common law relationship between you and the Persons who produce or publish the Gaia Content.

The Gaia Content is not intended as and does not provide or create or constitute a part of any advice, representation, warranty, certification, guarantee, promise, offer, issuance, solicitation, undertaking, service, indemnity, insurance, partnership, joint venture, or enterprise, express or implied. The Gaia Content is not and does not constitute a part of an offer or agreement to make any products or services available now or in the future, to maintain or update or improve any technologies or content, or to sell or buy or otherwise transact in any asset or enter into any transaction, including anything in relation to the Gaia Network.

All use of the Gaia Content and the technologies described therein, including but not limited to the Gaia Network. You must not rely on the Gaia Content as a basis for making any financial, economic, social, voting or other decision but must instead conduct your own independent due diligence into all relevant matters or engage your own professional advisors to conduct such due diligence on your behalf.

## No Governmental/Regulatory Review or Approval
The Gaia Content and the matters described in the Gaia Content have not been reviewed, approved, endorsed, opined on, licensed or registered by or with any regulator or other entity (including governmental agencies, commissions, and self-regulatory organizations), and the authors of the Gaia Content are not licensed to provide any legal, financial, accounting, investment, broker, dealer, or other advice or services.

## Uncertain Nature of Forward-Looking Statements; No Duty to Update.
Any forward-looking statements in the Gaia Content are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, and thus the events described or predicted therein are subject to change or to fail to occur in accordance therewith. The authors of the Gaia Content undertake no obligation to update, supplement or amend any statement that becomes inaccurate or incomplete after the date on which the Gaia Content is first published, or to alert the public as to any such inaccuracy or incompleteness, whether such inaccuracy or incompleteness arises as a result of new information, changes in plans, unanticipated events or otherwise.

## No Investment or Lending; No Contract Rights; Absence of Counterparties
Your transactions utilizing the Gaia Network are not intended to be an investment, a capital-raising transaction for an enterprise, a sale of your tokens to any Person or group of Persons or a purchase of tokens from any Person or group of Persons. They are also not intended to be a loan, consignment or deposit of your tokens to or with, or a service provided to you by, any Person or group of Persons. Your deposited and/or locked tokens will not be owned by or under the control of any Person or group of Persons involved in creating the Gaia Network. There is no private or governmental insurance (on the part of the creators of the Gaia Network, any nation-state or any other Person) available to compensate you for any such losses or other adverse circumstances relating to Gaia transactions or smart contract interactions.
